# Linear-Regression-of-data-driven-battery
Machine-learning approach In this work, author has developed data-driven models that accurately predict the cycle life of commercial  lithium iron phosphate (LFP)/ graphite cells using early-cycle data, with no prior knowledge of degradation  mechanisms. To build an early-prediction model, a feature-based approach is used. Features, such as initial discharge capacity, charge time, and cell can temperature, are generated and used  in a regularized linear framework and proposed from domain knowledge of lithium-ion batteries. Several  features are calculated based on the discharge voltage curve to capture the electrochemical evolution of  individual cells during cycling. For the Q(V), the discharge voltage curves of each cell, summary statistics such as minimum, mean, and  variance are determined. The change in voltage curves between two cycles is captured by each summary  statistic. Three alternative models have been studied due to the great predictive potential of features  based on Q100-10(V). (1) variance of ΔQ100-10(V),  (2) additional candidate features obtained during discharge and (3) features from additional data streams such as temperature and internal resistance. Data is collected from the first 100 cycles in every case. These three models are proposed to examine the  cost–benefit of collecting more data streams as well as the accuracy limits of prediction. The training data  (41 cells) are used to choose model features and coefficient values, while the primary testing data (43  cells) are used to evaluate model performance. The model is then tested using a secondary testing dataset  (40 cells) that has been generated after the development of the model. The prediction performance is measured using two metrics: root-mean-square error (RMSE), which is  measured in cycles, and average percentage error, which is explained in the ‘Machine-Learning model  creation’ selection. In short, the data is first separated into training and test sets. The elastic net is then used to train the  model on the training set, resulting in a linear model with downselected features and coefficients. The  model is then applied to both the primary and secondary test sets. The elastic net prediction and data  processing are done in MATLAB, while the classification is done in Python with the NumPy, pandas, and  sklearn tools.
